blog/content/blog/my_side_project.md, before:

---
title: "My side project"
date: 2022-06-29T20:07:34+02:00
publishDate: "2022-06-29"
draft: false
tags:
- Avatar
- VR
- Stargate
---

I'm someone which is deeply curious about everything. If you ask people who
knows me since childhood, they'll tell you that the answer _Because._ is 
something that always drive me mad. 
Also, I hate being bored, there's so much things to do in this world, so 
much thing to learn that being bored is just a waste of time and resources.

<!--
![A Gif of Anthony Hopkins in Westworld saying 'that only boring people get 
bored'](/blogposts/my_side_project/boring.gif)
-->

Of course I work in my day life, and I'm a father too so my brain is quite 
busy, but there's time when it miss the fuel. That's why I decided to launch 
a side project in parallel, but I'll need an idea.

## The Idea

First, I need an idea. I wanted something big, something complicated and which
will have no link to my day to day work. Why ? Because I want to use it to 
learn new things, with a new angle, not be confined in one area. So I need 
something out of the Web development or Cloud development world.

Video games have always been part of my life since... like forever. I've 
played my first games on a brand new Playstation 1, and now I have like enough
video games in my library to play for 3 life times. I like the way they allow
us to have several lives, to live adventures.

Then someday I found the book Ready Player One by Ernest Cline at a second hand
library, and damn that I love this story, the fact that using Virtual Reality 
we may be able to actually _experiment_ those worlds. That our imagination will
be the only limit and the technology will allow us to create as many universe as 
there's star in the sky.

I know it's just a book (and a dystopian one), but the virtual world (and I'll
never called it the meta-shit thing) and its possibility make something pops in 
my head. Since this very first moment, I decided to specialized in Virtual Reality,
I do not want to wait for it to be good, I want to be _part of it_.

![A picture of Jeffrey Wright in his role of Bernard Lowe from the series WestWorld 
with the quote: I guess people like to read about the things that they want the most 
and experience the least.](/blogposts/my_side_project/read.jpg)

We have the general idea : something realated to the Virtual Reality. If I really
need a complex project, I may choose to create my own Game, and since I'm eager to
learn why just stopping to a Game, why not creating my own _GameEngine_ ? I know 
that there's a lot of good game engines out there, like Unity, and UnrealEngine, 
and those engine will always be more advanced that what I can do. But those engines
are _generic_, I want something dedicated, which consider VR as a first citizen.
And most importantly : I want to learn how a game engine works.

It's decided : **I'll create a Game Engine for VR.**

## The Purpose

A GameEngine on its own is something, but I can be sure that it works well ? Don't bother
answering, it was rhetorical : By doing a Game with it.

But I'm kind of afraid that doing both a brand new GameEngine and an original Game with 
all it's logic/design/research will be too much for one side project, I think that I'll 
rely on an existing universe idea.

Let me tell you a story, which we may call _the malediction of the franchise_.

In 1997 starts a brand new SciFi tv show, based on a famous movie. The show was quite 
popular with 10 seasons of 22 episodes, and two spin-offs (at a mini show experiment 
several years later). It has anything needed for a great game : a complexe universe, 
several secondary stories, species and aliens races, futuristic technology, humor...

_Indeed_ the studio which own the franchise ordered a video game project, a FPS;
and it was quite promising. Unfortunately, development was cancelled in 2005 (a law 
suit later occured between two studio when one tries to revive it, but with no 
success).

In 2006, the company owning the show trademarks reveal that they task a studio for 
working on a MMORPG in the universe of the show, based on Unreal Engine 3.0. They 
even go as far as starting the production phase, showing some demo of the game to 
fans and making it appears in one of the TVShow spin-off ! But again Karma it them
hard, because in 2007 the Econominal Crisis happened, barely managing to keep up 
with financial issues. In 2010, the studio filled a bankruptcy and the project was
cancelled.

2009, the same studio started an online TPS, still on the universe of the TVShow 
(yeah, at this point we're at the 3rd project on this universe...). They go as far
as actually launching the game in 2010, operated by another party after the
bankruptcy. This game last one year, and in 2011 the servers were shutdown.

2013, fourth game attempt on iOS and Android. Doesn't make it to end of the year.

Finally in 2021, a RTS was announced, with a release scheduled for 2022, but still
nothing for the moment.

So where we are now : a tv show which starts in 1997, and in 2021 four dead games and 
one _maybe, I'm not sure, one day_ game. Ah, and a lot of fan (myself included) 
which miss this universe (yeah because you know, the tvshows are over) and desperatly
want a game to continue exploring it.

At this point, if you know of what show I'm talking about, you're part of the family 
and we probably have the same wish.

I mean, the **Stargate** universe is so addictive.

![Richard Dean Anderson, as Jack O'Neil, and Christopher Judge, as Teal'c, in golf 
suits in front of an openned Stargate, Judge does a backswing into the 
Stargate](/blogposts/my_side_project/golf.gif)

Of course, I'll not target to recreate the complete universe, but only a small set 
first. In the Season 8, there's an episode called 
[Avatar](https://www.gateworld.net/sg1/s8/avatar/) where the SGC experiment with a 
new training program with an invasion scenario in.... Virtual Reality ! So my point 
here is to remake the same intro as we see in the episode in VR, with my own game 
engine. This will allow me to define a set of features that my VR Game Engine should 
support.

At this point I should add the following disclaimer : **I do not own any trademarks 
related to the Stargate franchise, which belongs to the Metro Goldwyn Meyer company. 
This will only be a fan game, made for research purpose, and I don't plan to sell or 
distribute it in any way to anyone.**

I'm sorry for the hardcore Stargate family, but this blog will only present blogpost 
of  research and results around it.

## Let's get to work, shall we ?

So here's my side project, and one of the main reason of this blog : to create
a Game Engine dedicated for Virtual Reality. I'll use the Stargate universe as 
a game to test it. On this blog I'll share you some blog post about my research
and ideas, technical stuff I experiment with, code snippets, but also my dev diary
with my thoughts _as is_, just to keep a track.

If someone finds it interesting, now or later, I'll be very glad. 

![Michael Shanks, as Daniel Jackson, waving the paw of a teddy bear in his 
hands](/blogposts/my_side_project/bye.gif)

Commit message:

Style the list project page

blog/content/blog/my_side_project.md, after:

---
title: "My side project"
date: 2022-06-29T20:07:34+02:00
publishDate: "2022-06-29"
draft: false
tags:
- Avatar
- VR
- Stargate
---

I'm someone which is deeply curious about everything. If you ask people who
knows me since childhood, they'll tell you that the answer _Because._ is 
something that always drive me mad. 
Also, I hate being bored, there's so much things to do in this world, so 
much thing to learn that being bored is just a waste of time and resources.

<!--
![A Gif of Anthony Hopkins in Westworld saying 'that only boring people get 
bored'](/blogposts/my_side_project/boring.gif)
-->

Of course I work in my day life, and I'm a father too so my brain is quite 
busy, but there's time when it miss the fuel. That's why I decided to launch 
a side project in parallel, but I'll need an idea.

## The Idea

First, I need an idea. I wanted something big, something complicated and which
will have no link to my day to day work. Why ? Because I want to use it to 
learn new things, with a new angle, not be confined in one area. So I need 
something out of the Web development or Cloud development world.

Video games have always been part of my life since... like forever. I've 
played my first games on a brand new Playstation 1, and now I have like enough
video games in my library to play for 3 life times. I like the way they allow
us to have several lives, to live adventures.

Then someday I found the book Ready Player One by Ernest Cline at a second hand
library, and damn that I love this story, the fact that using Virtual Reality 
we may be able to actually _experiment_ those worlds. That our imagination will
be the only limit and the technology will allow us to create as many universe as 
there's star in the sky.

I know it's just a book (and a dystopian one), but the virtual world (and I'll
never called it the meta-shit thing) and its possibility make something pops in 
my head. Since this very first moment, I decided to specialized in Virtual Reality,
I do not want to wait for it to be good, I want to be _part of it_.

![A picture of Jeffrey Wright in his role of Bernard Lowe from the series WestWorld 
with the quote: I guess people like to read about the things that they want the most 
and experience the least.](/blogposts/my_side_project/read.jpg)

We have the general idea : something realated to the Virtual Reality. If I really
need a complex project, I may choose to create my own Game, and since I'm eager to
learn why just stopping to a Game, why not creating my own _GameEngine_ ? I know 
that there's a lot of good game engines out there, like Unity, and UnrealEngine, 
and those engine will always be more advanced that what I can do. But those engines
are _generic_, I want something dedicated, which consider VR as a first citizen.
And most importantly : I want to learn how a game engine works.

It's decided : **I'll create a Game Engine for VR.**

## The Purpose

A GameEngine on its own is something, but I can be sure that it works well ? Don't bother
answering, it was rhetorical : By doing a Game with it.

But I'm kind of afraid that doing both a brand new GameEngine and an original Game with 
all it's logic/design/research will be too much for one side project, I think that I'll 
rely on an existing universe idea.

Let me tell you a story, which we may call _the malediction of the franchise_.

In 1997 starts a brand new SciFi tv show, based on a famous movie. The show was quite 
popular with 10 seasons of 22 episodes, and two spin-offs (at a mini show experiment 
several years later). It has anything needed for a great game : a complexe universe, 
several secondary stories, species and aliens races, futuristic technology, humor...

_Indeed_ the studio which own the franchise ordered a video game project, a FPS;
and it was quite promising. Unfortunately, development was cancelled in 2005 (a law 
suit later occured between two studio when one tries to revive it, but with no 
success).

In 2006, the company owning the show trademarks reveal that they task a studio for 
working on a MMORPG in the universe of the show, based on Unreal Engine 3.0. They 
even go as far as starting the production phase, showing some demo of the game to 
fans and making it appears in one of the TVShow spin-off ! But again Karma it them
hard, because in 2007 the Econominal Crisis happened, barely managing to keep up 
with financial issues. In 2010, the studio filled a bankruptcy and the project was
cancelled.

2009, the same studio started an online TPS, still on the universe of the TVShow 
(yeah, at this point we're at the 3rd project on this universe...). They go as far
as actually launching the game in 2010, operated by another party after the
bankruptcy. This game last one year, and in 2011 the servers were shutdown.

2013, fourth game attempt on iOS and Android. Doesn't make it to end of the year.

Finally in 2021, a RTS was announced, with a release scheduled for 2022, but still
nothing for the moment.

So where we are now : a tv show which starts in 1997, and in 2021 four dead games and 
one _maybe, I'm not sure, one day_ game. Ah, and a lot of fan (myself included) 
which miss this universe (yeah because you know, the tvshows are over) and desperatly
want a game to continue exploring it.

At this point, if you know of what show I'm talking about, you're part of the family 
and we probably have the same wish.

I mean, the **Stargate** universe is so addictive.

![Richard Dean Anderson, as Jack O'Neil, and Christopher Judge, as Teal'c, in golf 
suits in front of an openned Stargate, Judge does a backswing into the 
Stargate](/blogposts/my_side_project/golf.gif)

Of course, I'll not target to recreate the complete universe, but only a small set 
first. In the Season 8, there's an episode called 
[Avatar](https://www.gateworld.net/sg1/s8/avatar/) where the SGC experiment with a 
new training program with an invasion scenario in.... Virtual Reality ! So my point 
here is to remake the same intro as we see in the episode in VR, with my own game 
engine. This will allow me to define a set of features that my VR Game Engine should 
support.

At this point I should add the following disclaimer : **I do not own any trademarks 
related to the Stargate franchise, which belongs to the Metro Goldwyn Meyer company. 
This will only be a fan game, made for research purpose, and I don't plan to sell or 
distribute it in any way to anyone.**

I'm sorry for the hardcore Stargate family, but this blog will only present blogpost 
of  research and results around it.

## Let's get to work, shall we ?

So here's my side project, and one of the main reason of this blog : to create
a Game Engine dedicated for Virtual Reality. I'll use the Stargate universe as 
a game to test it. On this blog I'll share you some blog post about my research
and ideas, technical stuff I experiment with, code snippets, but also my dev diary
with my thoughts _as is_, just to keep a track.

If someone finds it interesting, now or later, I'll be very glad. 

In any case, you can follow the progress of this project [here](/project/avatar)
and I'll also publish technical or more complex thoughts on this blog, so stay 
tunned if you're interested !

![Michael Shanks, as Daniel Jackson, waving the paw of a teddy bear in his 
hands](/blogposts/my_side_project/bye.gif)
